# Students reviewing students' code #

smacleod pointed out that there was a lack of student-on-student reviews. Said they should be encouraged, but we should make it clear what's expected in reviews.

ammok suggested a short list of reviews to use as inspiration, and a check list of things to look for.

smacleod suggested requiring student reviews per each code submission, before core devs look at them.

ChipX86 brought up having students working on related code tasked to review each others' work.


# Commit messages #

smacleod said improving student change descriptions would help. Make them less vague, include more information.


# Project focus #

smacleod suggested we control the project selection a bit more to fix the code review issue. Try to focus students instead of everyone running off in all directions.

m\_conley asked if students liked that they got to choose projects from a wiki, or if we should have assigned their tasks.

smacleod liked choosing.

smacleod said the projects should be better scoped and described. A general description of what students will need to be modifying, adding, etc. What parts of the code will be touched, which technologies (JavaScript/Python/CSS/etc.), maybe an easy-to-hard description.

ChipX86 suggested listing projects that focus on a few core Review Board goals, which would help with requiring initial thought up-front and having students work on similar features.


# Former projects #

smacleod said it would be nice to document former student projects, the state they're in, what was involved.


# Expectations/Meetings #

medanat said that expectations for a student are a little vague in terms of what we want and where they are in relation.

ChipX86 suggested one-on-one meetings early on to establish milestones/goals.

Maybe regularly scheduled, with a sort of evaluation or "Here's where we think you're at right now."

smacleod suggested more people at the sprint. Too few mentors for too many students.


# Mentor Availability #

jimrrchen had trouble getting a hold of us when needing help.

ChipX86 suggested continuing to plow at the problem instead of waiting for an answer. Deep dive.


## IRC ##

jim asked how people handle staying in IRC. Makes it difficult if they can't stay in, since we can't always answer the question.

One solution is for us to set up shells for students to use for IRC. smacleod recommends ZNC.


## Mailing Lists ##

purple\_cow reminded that mailing lists are an option.

General consensus is that the mailing lists are a bad option for simple questions ("what does this line do?"). Maybe better for larger discussion.


# Documentation/Wiki #

smacleod points out there's a learning curve for writing Sphinx docs.

Says the wiki is a bit out of date and neglected.

m\_conley points out that the wiki was something we tried for the first time this semester.

Make a formal reviewboard.org community/developer wiki?

Include docs on how to write docs for Review Board.


# Feature vs. Bug Fix Priorities #

medanat and smacleod pointed out that it can be hard to determine whether to focus on features vs. bug fixing, when the bugs get in your way.

We think it's fine to do both, but try not to get too bogged down in bugs. We just like that good work is getting done.


# Code Standards #

Should mention the pep8 tool on the Contribution docs page.


# First-time setup #

smacleod recommends making student forks mandatory and making it clear how to set them up. Good primer to Git, helps us look at code without review requests.