#summary Configuring repositories in the admin UI and for post-review
#labels Documentation

= Configuring Repositories =

Review Board supports talking to multiple source code repositories of various types. A single Review Board server can be configured with nearly an unlimited number of repositories, making it useful in large projects and companies as well as small.


== Adding New Repositories ==

For Review Board to talk to a source code repository, it must first know how to access it.

To add a new repository, first click "Admin" in the upper-right of any Review Board page. Then click the "Add" link next to "Repositories" in the "Scmtools" section.

A form will appear with the following fields:


=== Name (required) ===

This is the human-readable name of the repository. The name can be whatever you like and will appear on the "New Review Request" page and in the review request detail information.


=== Path (required) ===

This is the path to the repository. It must be accessible by the server running Review Board. The value depends on the repository type.


==== CVS ====

In an existing checkout, type:

{{{
$ cat CVS/Root
}}}

Use the contents of this file as the repository path.


==== Perforce ====

In an existing checkout, type:

{{{
$ p4 info
}}}

Use the value from the "Server address" field.


==== Subversion ====

In an existing checkout, type:

{{{
$ svn info
}}}

Use the value from the "Repository Root" field.


=== Username and Password (optional) ===

Some repositories will require a username and password for any access. Some repositories (such as Subversion) generally do not need a username or password, and instead have implicit anonymous support, but this varies on the setup. Some repositories (such as CVS and Perforce) usually require a username but may not require a password. The administrator of the repository should know what is required.


=== Tool (required) ===

This is the SCM tool used to talk to this repository. The values should be straightforward, as they're usually the names of the repository type.


=== Bug tracker (optional) ===

In most projects, there's a bug tracker for the repository or project, and review requests will often reference bugs.

Review Board will automatically link any bugs referenced against a repository to the appropriate ticket in the bug tracker if this field is provided.

The value of the field should be set to the path of a ticket, except with {{{%s}}} instead of the ticket name.

For example:

  * *Bugzilla:* {{{http://bugzilla.example.com/show_bug.cgi?id=%s}}}
  * *Trac:* {{{http://trac.example.com/ticket/%s}}}


=== Encoding (optional) ===

Encoding is a field not often needed, but in some cases there's confusion as to the proper encoding to expect from files in a repository. Set this to the proper encoding type (such as {{{utf-8}}}) if you need to, but generally you don't want to touch this field if things are working fine.