#summary How to configure Review Board for outgoing e-mail
#labels Documentation,ServerAdministration

= Configuring E-Mail =

Review Board has the capability to send e-mails out on the user's behalf for any updates to review requests or reviews. This allows people to receive updates to review requests and discussions in their e-mail client.


== Install a Mail Server ==

To configure this, you'll need an SMTP mail server installed, such as [http://www.postfix.org/ Postfix] or [http://www.sendmail.org/ Sendmail]. The SMTP server does not have to be on the same server as Review Board, but Review Board must be able to access it.

Configuring the mail server is beyond the scope of this documentation, but typically on most installs, it's available out of the box.


== Configure E-Mail Settings ==

First, Review Board must be told where the server lives.

Set the following in {{{settings_local.py}}}:

{{{
EMAIL_HOST = "smtp.example.com"
EMAIL_PORT = 25

SEND_REVIEW_MAIL = True
}}}

{{{EMAIL_HOST}}} should of course be set to the hostname of your mail server. {{{EMAIL_PORT}}} should almost always be 25, unless you've specifically changed the port number.

At this point, Review Board should be ready to start sending e-mail.


== Configuring Groups ==

Review groups can be assigned a mailing list. If set, all new review requests, updates to existing review requests, and discussions on them that are assigned to the review group will trigger e-mails to the mailing list.

If a mailing list is not set on a review group, and {{{SEND_REVIEW_MAIL}}} is {{{True}}}, then every member of the group will be e-mailed with the updates.