#summary Documentation for Review Board
#labels Featured

= User Documentation =

  * [UserBasics User Basics] - How to get started as a Review Board user.
  * [SearchTips Search Tips] - How to make effective use of Review Board search.
  * [Using_PostReview Using post-review] - Instructions on using the post-review tool.
  * [Summer_Of_Code_Hosting Hosting for Google Summer of Code] - Information on signing up for the free Review Board hosting for Google's Summer of Code.

= Administrator Documentation =

  * [Host_Requirements Host Requirements] - Requirements your host must meet for Review Board.
  * [Before_You_Install Before You Install] - Pre-installation instructions.
  * [GettingStarted Getting Started] - Contains installation instructions for different setups.
  * [SettingUpSearch Setting Up Search] - How to set up search.
  * [Configuring_EMail Configuring E-Mail] - How to configure Review Board for outgoing e-mail
  * [ServerOptimizations Server Optimizations] - Potential ways to improve performance on a Review Board server.
  * [RequiredServerUpdates Required Server Updates] - Changes that require manual updates of Review Board servers.
  * [DatabaseSchemaUpgrades Database Schema Upgrades] - How to cope when the database schema changes.

= Developer Documentation =

  * [Roadmap] - Development roadmap for the upcoming release.
  * [IdeasFor2_0] - Ideas for the Review Board 2.0 release.
  * [ReviewBoardAPI Review Board API] - Reference documentation for writing applications that talk to Review Board servers.
  * [UnitTestFixtures Unit Test Fixtures] - Working with fixtures for unit tests