#summary Frequently Asked Questions
#labels Featured

= Frequently Asked Questions =

== General Usage ==

=== Is Review Board free for commercial use? ===

Yes, Review Board is absolutely free for commercial use.


=== What license is Review Board under? ===

Review Board is under the MIT license, which basically means you are free to do as you want. You must however keep the software under the MIT license.

This permits companies to create custom modifications of Review Board for their setups without contributing back. However, we strongly encourage people to contribute back to the project, as it benefits everybody and will ease upgrades by helping to keep your codebase from straying too far from ours.


=== Does Review Board support post-commit review? ===

Yes, Review Board can handle post-commit review, though currently you need to [Using_PostReview use post-review] for this.

Review Board was initially designed for pre-commit reviews and large changes need to be made before post-commit reviews can be handled in the web UI. We plan to get to this after Review Board 1.0.


=== What's pre-commit and post-commit reviews? ===

Pre-commit reviews are where code is reviewed before it's checked into a public repository and mainline, non-developer branch. Code isn't committed until reviewers sign off on it, leaving the tree stable and easing changes.

Post-commit reviews are where code is first committed to a public repository and then reviewed. This makes the code available to others to develop against until the code is reviewed, but large-scale changes to the architecture of the code can then be hard to make without disrupting others. Post-commit reviews sometimes happen by individuals or by a large group sitting together and reading over the code together.


== Troubleshooting ==

=== I'm getting a 404 for every page ===

This points to a configuration error in your web server configuration.

If you're using lighttpd as your web server, add the following to settings_local.py file:

{{{
FORCE_SCRIPT_NAME = "/"
}}}

If this is a subdirectory install on lighttpd, set this variable to the subdirectory name (making sure to keep leading and trailing slashes).

=== I'm getting the error: !OperationalError at /dashboard/ near "DISTINCT": syntax error ===

Your version of sqlite is too old. Make sure you're running sqlite 3.2.1 or higher.


=== I get a page telling me to run syncdb, but I've done that already ===

Generally this page is there to let you know when we've updated the database schema so you can make the appropriate changes. Be sure to run {{{./manage.py syncdb}}} and follow the [DatabaseSchemaUpgrades database schema upgrade instructions] if it tells you an evolution is required.

If you've done that already and you're still getting the error, and you're using sqlite for your database, you may need to set {{{DATABASE_NAME}}} in {{{settings_local.py}}} to the absolute path of the database instead of the relative path. See [http://groups.google.com/group/reviewboard/browse_thread/thread/9836ff1bcb501cc4?hl=en this thread] for more information.


=== I'm having trouble installing post-review on Windows Vista ===

See the [Installing_Simplejson_On_Vista Installing simplejson On Vista] page for a possible solution to your problem.


== Developing Review Board ==

=== What is Review Board written in? ===

Review Board is written in [http://www.python.org/ Python], using the [http://www.djangoproject.com/ Django] web framework.


=== Where do I submit patches for Review Board? ===

Patches to Review Board or Djblets should be submitted to our own Review Board instance, [http://reviews.review-board.org/ reviews.review-board.org]. If you submit patches to the mailing list or bug tracker, we'll ask you to move them here for review.