#summary Dependency installation instructions for Ubuntu Gutsy (7.10)
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Basic Setup =

Installation on Ubuntu Gutsy is easy for the most part, with exceptions. Most of the packages we need are packaged by default. We'll need to grab Django and the Python Memcache bindings manually.

Start by typing the following in a terminal:

{{{
$ sudo apt-get install subversion python-imaging python-flup
}}}

Now change to a directory where you want to keep the Django source tree and type:

{{{
$ svn co http://code.djangoproject.com/svn/django/trunk django_src
$ cd django_src
$ python setup.py install
}}}

If all went well, you should have Django installed and the base dependencies for Review Board.


= Choosing a Database Backend =

Review Board has been tested with SQLite 3 and MySQL databases.

== SQLite ==

{{{
$ sudo apt-get install python-pysqlite2
}}}

== MySQL ==

{{{
$ sudo apt-get install mysql-server-5.0
}}}

= Choosing a Web Server =

Review Board has been tested with Apache 2 and lighttpd.

== Apache ==

{{{
$ sudo apt-get install apache2 libapache2-mod-python
}}}

== lighttpd ==

{{{
$ sudo apt-get install lighttpd
}}}


= Support for Revision Control Systems =

Most revision control systems, like Subversion or CVS, are easy to install and get running.

== Subversion ==

{{{
$ sudo apt-get install python-svn
}}}

== CVS ==

{{{
$ sudo apt-get install cvs
}}}

== Git ==

{{{
$ sudo apt-get install git-core
}}}

== Mercurial ==

{{{
$ sudo apt-get install mercurial
}}}

== Perforce ==

Perforce is a bit more difficult to set up properly. You will need to install p4api and p4python. See [http://public.perforce.com/guest/robert_cowham/perforce/API/python/index.html#build p4python's documentation] for detailed instructions.


= Development Tools =

If you're working on developing or testing Review Board, you'll want to install some extras.

== Nose ==

We use nose for our unit tests.

{{{
$ sudo apt-get install python-nose
}}}