#summary Development roadmap for the upcoming release
#labels Phase-Design,Phase-Requirements,Phase-Implementation

= Review Board 1.0 Roadmap =

This describes the roadmap for the 1.0 release of Review Board, including an estimated schedule, features we expect to have in the release, and bugs we want to fix.


== Schedule ==

We hope to have a 1.0 release by March 2009. This may change due to many factors, but we're proceeding with this goal in mind. We were hoping for a December 2008 release, which became unrealistic due some delays in important changes we wanted in.

The release process will be:

  * *Alpha 1:* Most of our [#Must_Have_Features must-have features] should be implemented.
    * *Release Date:* Sunday, January 18th, 2009
  * *Alpha 2:* All of our [#Must_Have_Features must-have features] must be implemented. Many of our [#Bugs Milestone-1.0 bugs] will still be open, but no new features will be added outside what's on this roadmap without a compelling case. We hope to have most of our contributed patches that are ready to commit in this release. Non-trivial contributions will be pushed to our next release.
    * *Release Date:* Tuesday, February 3, 2009
  * *Beta 1:* All [#Maybe_Features "maybe" features] that we decide we want in 1.0 must be implemented. All other features will be pushed back to the next release. The focus after this will be on documentation and bug fixes.
  * *Beta 2:* All medium and high priority [#Bugs Milestone-1.0 bugs] should be fixed.
  * *Release Candidate 1:* All bugs we're going to fix for Review Board 1.0 should be fixed by this point. If any critical bugs are filed after this point, there may be a Release Candidate 2.
  * *Final Release*


== Release Dependencies ==

  * *Django 1.0:* Review Board's biggest dependency is [http://www.djangoproject.com/ Django]. Django 1.0 released on 3 September, 2008.
  * *Django Evolution:* [http://django-evolution.googlecode.com/ Django Evolution] is another important dependency. Their release schedule is unknown but we'll likely depend on either a snapshot of their Subversion repository or the closest stable release at the point of our release.


== Release 1.0 ==

=== Must-Have Features ===

|| *Feature*                                || *Status*                     ||
|| New admin UI                             || Committed                    ||
|| Dynamic site settings                    || Committed                    ||
|| Logging                                  || Committed                    ||
|| Move to Python setuptools                || Committed                    ||
|| Site installation script                 || Committed                    ||
|| UI Rewrite ([Eliminating_YUIExt Eliminating YUI-Ext]) || Committed       ||
|| Page load time improvements              || Committed                    ||
|| Move to jQuery 1.3                       || Committed                    ||


=== Maybe Features ===

|| *Feature*                      || *Issue Number*  || *Status*    ||
|| Diff change descriptions       || issue 333       || Committed   ||
|| Disable user registration      ||                 || Not started ||
|| Linkify URLs in descriptions   || issue 258       || Committed   ||
|| Monotone repository support    ||                 || Started in trunk, but broken ||


=== Documentation ===

|| *Feature*                      || *Issue Number*  || *Status*    ||
|| Admin manual                   ||                 || In progress ||
|| User manual                    || issue 368       || Not started ||
|| API documentation              ||                 || Not started ||

=== Bugs ===

We have a list of bugs we'd like to fix for 1.0. Any and all bugs that we can fix should be fixed, but we specifically mark some as Milestone-Release1.0.

  * [http://code.google.com/p/reviewboard/issues/list?can=2&q=milestone:Release1.0 Milestone-Release1.0 bug list]


== Release 1.5 ==

=== Must-Have Features ===

|| *Feature*                      || *Issue Number*  || *Status*    ||
|| "Not Shippable" status         || issue 489       || Not started ||
|| User/group access policies     ||                 || Not started ||
|| Third-party extensions         ||                 || Not started ||

=== Bugs ===

We have a list of bugs we'd like to fix for 1.5. Any and all bugs that we can fix should be fixed, but we specifically mark some as Milestone-Release1.5.

  * [http://code.google.com/p/reviewboard/issues/list?can=2&q=milestone:Release1.5 Milestone-Release1.5 bug list]