#summary How to set up search
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

Adding search to your review board is a bit of a complicated process, but it's worth it

= Details =

== Installing PyLucene ==

This is by far the hardest step.  [http://pylucene.osafoundation.org/ PyLucene] is a wrapper around the Apache Lucene search engine for python, and is what Review Board search uses to do the indexing and querying.

As a first step, download PyLucene.  There are two versions, _PyLucene with JCC_ and _PyLucene with GCJ_.  For this, you'll need the JCC version.  Luckily, this is also the easier of the two to build.  Download the latest and untar it. 

You'll need to make sure you've got the build dependencies installed:
  * gcc/g++
  * A JDK
  * Ant

On Ubuntu, you can just type `apt-get install gcc g++ sun-java6-jdk ant`

The first step in building PyLucene is to build JCC.  Inside the PyLucene directory, there's a `jcc` directory.  Enter it, and run:
{{{
python setup.py build && python setup.py install --prefix=/usr
}}}

Once this is done, cd back to the top-level PyLucene directory and edit the Makefile.  You'll need to write some custom settings for the distribution you're running on.  There are several examples, one of which may work unmodified.

Finally, run `make`.  If this suceeds, follow up with `make install`.  If not, go back and check your Makefile settings.

After it's built, you don't need to keep a JDK installed, just a JRE.  Removing this can free up a sizeable amount of space, which may be useful if you're trying to build a slim virtual machine.

== Building the initial index ==

Open the General Settings page in the Administration UI and put a checkmark next to "Enable search." If you want the search index to exist in a specific location, also set the "Search index file" field to the location you want.  By default this will be blank.

Finally, run `rb-site manage /path/to/site index -- --full`.  This should give you a progress indicator, and may take some time depending on the size of your database.

== Maintaining the index ==
In order to keep the search index up to date, `rb-site manage /path/to/site index` needs to run periodically.  A sample cron configuration exists as `conf/search-cron.conf` in the site directory.