#summary How to get started as a Review Board user

= Introduction =

This is very much a work in progress.  Feel free to help out writing
this!

= Details =

Not much here yet...

== Before You Start ==

Most common browsers should work.  We've heard of problems with Firefox 1.5 and Opera, but Firefox 2.0, Internet Explorer and Safari should work.

Many version control systems have a built-in diff tool, but if it calls the `diff` program, make sure you're using at least diffutils 2.8.x.

== Posting Review Requests ==

Review Board is designed for code review processes which occur *before* a change is committed to version control.  The general workflow we designed it for is this:
  # You make some awesome change to your local checkout.
  # You create a review request by posting a diff, writing a description, and selecting some reviewers.
  # You click "Publish" on the review request and wait for your reviewers to see it.
  # Other people look at your review request, say "that is awesome", and give you the go-ahead.
  # You commit your change to the repository.
  # You click "Set Submitted" on the review request to remove it from peoples' dashboards.

This workflow can be changed a bit (eg. for processes where review happens after the commit, or for decentralized version control), but there are some inherent limitations in the way things are implemented right now, so it can't be changed too much.  For the moment, it is absolutely required that review requests are posted as diffs against revisions of files which exist in some centralized repository.

=== Using post-review ===
`post-review` is the preferred way to post review requests, mostly because it's so dang easy.  If your administrator has not provided a customized version, download http://reviewboard.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/reviewboard/contrib/perforce/post-review and set the "REVIEWBOARD_HOST" variable at the top to point to your review board server.

You'll need Python with the simplejson module installed for `post-review` to work.  Note that it currently only supports SVN and Perforce repositories.

Once you've run post-review, it will give you the URL for your new review request.  Open this up, and skip to the "Filling out the review" section below.

_*Special note for Perforce users:*_

Unfortunately, `p4 diff` is pretty broken.  Unless you've got a special wrapper around `p4` which does some more intense diffing (such as `p5` internally at VMware), you'll need to use `post-review`.

=== Not using post-review ===
If you can't use post-review (for example, with CVS or Mercurial) repositories, or you just like doing things the hard way, you can post a review by hand.

To start, click "New Review Request" in the upper left.  This will take you to a form to upload your diff.  Which means, you have to create a diff!  The diff needs to be in unified format, and different version control systems have different ways to do this.  You'll need to consult the documentation for your VCS to figure out how to do this if you don't already know.

Once you have the diff saved to a file, you can fill out the "New Review Request" form.  Begin by selecting a repository.  On most Review Board installations, you'll probably only have one choice, but some may have multiple ones to choose from.  Select the one which corresponds to the diff you just made.

Once you've selected the repository, some of the other fields may change depending on what version control system it's using.  Here are some of the fields you may encounter:

Perforce:
  * Change number -- this is the changeset number of the diff you want to post

Subversion:
  * Base diff path -- the relative path of where you were when you created the diff.  For example, if you locally have a checkout of "trunk/reviewboard" named "reviewboard", and that was the directory you were in when you made the diff, the base diff path would be "trunk/reviewboard".  This may also depend on how Review Board was configured -- consult your administrator if you have problems.

Finally, the last field is the diff.  Select the diff file you created, then click "Submit"

=== Filling Out The Review ===
Once you've got the review posted, you'll see a lot of empty fields (with Perforce, some of these may be filled in by your changeset information).  To set these, click the pencil icons.

== Reviewing Code ==

To review code, navigate to the review request you wish to review and click "View Diff" in the top right.

The general procedure is pretty simple:
  # Navigate through the diff and look at the changed files.  There's a cursor available that lets you keep track of where you are (if you scroll to some other part of the code to look at something).  Pressing "n" will jump the cursor to the next change, and "p" to the previous.
  # If you want to comment on one or more lines, click on the line number, or click and drag (downwards) to select multiple lines.  A box will pop up allowing you to enter your comment.  Click "Save Comment" when you're done.
  # When finished with your review, click the Review tab in the comment dialog.  If you've closed this dialog, go ahead and open it again by clicking on a random line.  It doesn't matter.  Yes, we'll make this more sane soon.  Type in whatever you like above and below your contextual comments, click "Ship It" if you think it's ready to be submitted, and then click "Publish Review."

After publishing a review, your review will be available in the Review Request page under the request box.  You will notice that every line you've commented on appears inline on the review box.  This helps the developer to see what you're talking about and helps for discussions about the code.  No more jumping back and forth between the e-mail client and the diff!

_Note: Ship It! is just a way of giving a definite "yes" to a change.  It won't actually commit anything to your repository_

== Discussing Reviews ==

Discussions of a review take place on the review box.  Below each block of text, you'll find an Add Comment link.  Clicking this will preset a box that you can type in.  You can make several comments and then click "Publish" at the top of the review box to save your comments and e-mail it out.

_Note: You can respond to a single review at a time.  In some cases, you may want to respond to multiple reviews by different people, in which case you need to publish two responses (and therefore will get two e-mail messages).  We're thinking of ways to reduce the amount of mail in these cases, so please bear with us._

Discussions are single-threaded, like web forums, Digg, etc.  This allows people to read a conversation from top to bottom instead of jumping between lots of threads.

= Reporting Problems =
This system is still pretty new, and is undergoing constant development.  If you have a bug, please file it in the [http://code.google.com/p/reviewboard/issues/list Issue Tracker].  Keep in mind that this is a public bug tracker, so do not include any sensitive information in the bug report.

Please also file feature requests if you have any.  We can't get to everything, but are working hard to make this a system people want to use.
